During the first year writing seminar “Digital Reading, Digital Writing” we explored ways to share information in the digital age. The class focused on effective ways to share ideas and make them easily accessible which was exemplified through our final project that we worked on throughout the class. For our final project the class collectively produced two digital editions or work by Plutarch and Nepos. Through this project and different class speakers, I learned how to adapt to new technology, skills for working collaboratively and different platforms available to share information.

In this class I learned collaboration skills and different methods for sharing work. Our main project for the class was collaborative. The group that I was a part of worked on creating a digital edition of the same text, but divided it into individual sections to make editing tasks more manageable. The sections each of us covered were decided amongst ourselves as well as the times during which we presented. I learned that it was necessary to be outspoken instead of worrying about my classmate’s perception of me. This allowed me to work on the section of text I felt the greatest affinity for. Information was shared between those with similar stories and group members would review each other’s scripts. I had to practice giving critiques that avoided unnecessary harshness, but still communicated flaws. 

Along with communication skills, working within a group setting taught me adaptability. I had to be willing to make changes when they were suggested instead of relying on myself. I also had to adapt to the new technology used during the class. The virtual machine environment that we worked in wasn’t necessarily new, but was very new to me. I’ve never considered myself to be “good with computers” so throughout the class I had to be resourceful and use the people and things available. I like to completely understand the instructions I’m given and the tasks that are asked of me, but for this class I would sometimes have to follow instructions without understanding them due to my limited background with the digital reading and writing. So, if I noticed one student seemed comfortable with what we were assigned I would ask them for help. Many other students did this as well which added to our project being a collaborative effort. 

Much of the collaborative effort’s success was due to working within a virtual environment. I learned to use software like git to pass information back and forth. All of our work was stored in the cloud so it was accessible from multiple devices and every person had access to changes made or instruction given by the professor. This particular software allowed several changes made to files and documents to be accessed with a single command. Individual changes were also easily made because we wrote in markdown. Before the course, I exclusively used Microsoft Word but now I understand the value of both word processors and text editors. Using the text editor Atom prevented me from focusing on typesetting over actually writing. It took much less time to produce documents in Atom compared to Microsoft Word. 

Git and Atom are examples of an effective way to share ideas because they use markdown, which can be understood by almost all computers. During the course, we explored various ways of sharing ideas and what made them effective or ineffective. Two major factors we considered were accessibility and reliability. I found platforms that allowed multiple media sources, like adobe spark, to be combined the most effective. Adobe spark gives the editor the option to combine written word, pictures, videos, maps and audio into a single medium that can be reached by a vast audience. I wasn’t fully aware that platforms like these were available and easily accessible to me before the course. The course also taught me not to devalue original works like manuscripts as they are a primary source which can give information that online articles or copies cannot. For instance, the relative wear and tear  on each page can show which were the most popular. This taught me that different resources are all somewhat effective in sharing information and that research should be conducted using various resources.


